#summary This is a guide for the WHT calibration and configuration

= Wireless Head Tracker calibration and configuration =

The calibration and configuration of the WHT can be performed with the WHTConfig.exe program. The program is included in the WHT softwate package and you can get it here: https://docs.google.com/uc?authuser=0&id=0B5QsMM8GX6NEZUJTOGxTNkJ0R28&export=download

Download it and unpack it into a new folder.

=== Basic calibration ===

 # Plug the USB dongle into your PC and turn on the tracker.
 # Start the WHTConfig.exe program. You should see this http://wireless-head-tracker.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/wht_config.png
 # Make sure the "RF packets" field in the status bar of the window is above 80%. This is a measure of quality of the radio connection. If it's lower than 80% brin the tracker closer to the dongle.
 # Place the tracker on a flat surface, then press the Calibrate button in the WHTConfig program
 # A yellow light should light up on the tracker. Wait for it to go off.
 # The calibration is complete.
 
=== Yaw drift compensation ===

Rough compensation calculation:

 # Place the tracker on a flat surface
 # Press the Reset button on the WHTConfig program
 # Let the tracker rest for about 15 minutes. Do not move the tracker.
 # Press the Save button on the WHTConfig program
 # Yaw drift is now compensated
 
Fine tuning:

 # In WHTConfig select Auto-center _Off_ and press _Save axes setup_
 # Put the tracker on your head and start playing.
 # During play do not press the reset button on the tracker or the Reset button in WHTConfig
 # If you notice the yaw heading (left/right) has drifted significantly into either direction, go to WHTConfig look straight ahead and press _Save_
 # Repeat the last step until you can not notice a drift for 10-15 minutes of use.
 # In WHTConfig select Auto-center _Medium_
 # The tracker should not drift any more after this